This paper used machine learning to rank-order the importance of a large number (92) of potential predictors of adolescents' emotion regulation development using data from a six-year longitudinal panel study of 497 Dutch adolescents (mean age at T1: 13.03). The candidate predictors were selected based on a prior text mining systematic review of 6305 published papers (Van Lissa, 2021), which identified the constructs most often discussed in relation to adolescent emotion regulation. All predictors were assessed at T1, and emotion regulation development from T2-T6 was modeled using a quadratic latent trajectory model. Score-based SEM-forests were then used to group adolescents with similar trajectories, based on their scores on the predictors. This person-centered approach not only identifies groups of adolescents with similar trajectories, but also indicates why some adolescents follow similar trajectories. 
The results indicate which variables were most predictive of emotion regulation trajectories. Among the most important predictors were indices of parental monitoring as examined in Study 1 (intrusiveness); daily mood and depression (as in Study 2); and psychological control (related to guilt induction, see Study 3). These factors were subordinate, however, to personality dimensions and indicators of conflict with parents and best friends. Follow-up analyses revealed how each predictor impacted the shape of adolescents’ expected developmental trajectories, and identified person-centered clusters of adolescents with similar developmental trajectories and similar constellations of predictor variables, including an at-risk cluster. These insights into early predictors of subsequent trajectories of emotion regulation development may help identify youth at risk of emotional problems, particularly since many important predictors were either relatively overt (conflict-related indicators) or routinely assessed in teens (personality dimensions). Moreover, rank-ordering predictors by variable importance may benefit future empirical research and theoretical work by allowing researchers to focus on the most influential predictors.

