Existing theory regards parenting effects as one of the most important factors in emotion regulation development. However, recent studies find little evidence for such effects on average. 

A key challenge in adolescent emotion regulation development research is to examine potential moderators of the effect of specific parenting practices on emotion regulation development. Prior research that has examined the effect of parenting practices at the within-family level has found little evidence for effects that were significant on average across families. Instead, much evidence has been found for heterogeneity in effects across families. This suggests that while certain parenting practices may have a positive impact on emotion regulation development for some adolescents, they may have no effect or even a negative effect for others. It is therefore important to identify potential moderators, such as individual and family characteristics, that may influence the effect of specific parenting practices on emotion regulation development. By doing so, researchers can gain a more comprehensive understanding of the factors that contribute to successful emotion regulation development and guide the development of targeted interventions for at-risk adolescents.

This exploratory study aims to overcome the limitations of prior research by identifying potential moderators of within-family predictive effects of specific parenting practices on adolescents' emotion regulation development (hereafter: parenting effects). We will use the SEM-forests algorithm (Brandmaier, Prindle, McArdle, & Lindenberger, 2016), a person-centered analysis technique, to identify the most important early indicators (at age 13) of this effect. Within-family predictive effects are modeled using a random-intercept cross-lagged panel model, which allows us to examine the effect of specific parenting practices on adolescents' emotion regulation development within families. The results of this study will indicate which factors are the most important moderators of parenting effects and contribute to our understanding of why some youth flourish while others struggle (Crone & Dahl, 2012). The resulting insights may help guide the formation of theory that adequately represents nuances in parents' roles in emotion regulation development. Moreover, if causality can be assumed based on prior research or established in follow-up research, these insights can guide the development of interventions that are tailored to the specific needs of at-risk adolescents and their families.

## The Present Study

This follow-up study builds on previous research that used machine learning to identify early predictors of adolescents' developmental trajectories of emotion regulation. The goal of this study is to use machine learning to identify moderators of the effect of specific parenting practices on emotion regulation development in adolescents. The study aims to overcome limitations in the existing literature by casting a broad net among potential risk factors and using data-driven insights to complement and reflect on existing theory. The study will use the SEM-forests algorithm, a person-centered analysis technique, to identify the most important early indicators of developmental trajectories of emotion regulation across adolescence. The results of this study will contribute to our understanding of why some youth flourish while others struggle with emotion regulation and guide the development of interventions that focus on the most important predictors.